# Code Structure

### *oyente.py*

This is the main entry point to the program. Oyente is able to analyze smart contracts via the following inputs
- solidity program
- evm bytecode
- remote contracts

Other configuration options include getting the input state, setting timeouts for z3, etc. (Check ```python oyente.py --help``` or ```global_params.py```  for the full list of configuration options available).
These options are collated and set in the *global_params* module which will be used during the rest of the execution.

The contracts are then disassembled into opcodes using the ```evm disasm``` command.

After this, the symexec module is called with the disassembled file which carries out the analyses of the contracts for various vulnerabilities (TOD, timestamp-dependence, mishandled exceptions).

### *symExec.py*

The analysis starts off with the ```build_cfg_and_analyze``` function. We break up the disasm file created by oyente.py into tokens using the native tokenize python module.

The *collect_vertices* and *construct_bb* functions identify the basic blocks in the program and we store them as vertices. Basic blocks are identified by using opcodes like ```JUMPDEST```, ```STOP```, ```RETURN```, ```SUICIDE```, ```JUMP``` and ```JUMPI``` as separators. Each basic block is backed by an instance of BasicBlock class defined in basicblock.py

After the basic blocks are created, we start to symbolically execute each basic block with the full_sym_exec function. We get the instructions stored in each basic block and execute each of them symbolically via the sym_exec_ins function. In this function, we model each opcode as closely as possible to the behaviour described in the ethereum yellow paper. Some interesting details regarding each class of opcodes is discussed below.

#### Model
The stack is modelled using a simple python list.
The memory is modelled as a growing list. The maximum index of used by the memory list is stored as ```current_miu_i``` variable.
The storage is stored as a python object as key-value pairs.

#### 0s: Stop and Arithmetic Operations, 10s: Comparison & Bitwise Logic Operations
These group of opcodes is the most straightforward to implement. If one of the operands is symbolic, both of them are converted into a 256-bit symbolic variable. The arithmetic operation is carried out (symbolically, if the operands are symbolic) and the result is pushed on to the stack.

#### 20s: SHA3
A generic symbolic variable is created to mimic the behaviour of the SHA3 opcode

#### 30s: Environmental Information, 40s: Block Information
For most of these opcodes, a unique symbolic variable is generated to represent it (similar to SHA3). In some cases, to speed up the symbolic execution, concrete values for these opcodes are taken from the state.json file. This behaviour is enabled via the --state flag. We haven't found ways to robustly simulate ```CODECOPY``` and ```EXTCODESIZE``` symbolically yet.

#### 40s: 50s: Stack, Memory, Storage and Flow Operations
New edges which are found during analysing the ```JUMP``` and ```JUMPI``` instructions are added to the call graph on the fly.

#### f0s: System operations
To handle the ```CALL``` and ```CALLCODE``` opcodes, we construct symbolic expressions to ensure there are enough funds in the sender's account and the sender's address is different from the receiver's address. If these conditions hold true, we update the corresponding global state.


After this, add this basic block to the list of already visited blocks and follow it to the next basic block. We also maintain the necessary path conditions required to get to the block in the ```path_conditions_and_vars``` variable. In case of instructions like JUMP, there is only one basic block to follow the program execution to. In other cases like ```JUMPI```, we first check if the branch expression is provably True or False using z3. If not, we explore both the branches by adding the branch expression and the negated branch expression to the ```path_conditions_and_vars``` variable.

- Callstack attack

Checking for the callstack attack is done by the *check_callstack_attack* function. If a ```CALL``` or a ```CALLCODE``` instruction is found without the ```SWAP4, POP, POP, POP, POP, ISZERO``` following it, we flag it as being vulnerable to the callstack attack. This opcode sequence is the one generated by solc corresponding to the following recommended code pattern to prevent against the attack.

```
if (owner.send(amount)) {..}
```

- Timestamp dependence attack

We find out if the ```path_conditions``` variable contains the symbolic variable corresponding to the block timestamp. If so, the program can be concluded to take a path in the program which makes use of the block timestamp, making it vulnerable to the Timestamp dependence attack.

- Reentrancy bug

This presence of this bug is analysed in the ```check_reentrancy_bug``` function in analysis.py. At each CALL that is encountered, we obtain the path condition for the execution before the CALL is executed. We then check if such condition with updated variables (e.g., storage values) still holds (i.e., if the call can be executed again). If so, we consider this a vulnerability, since it is possible for the callee to re-execute the call before finishing it.

- Concurrency bug

We track the sender, recepient and the value transferred at each ```CALL``` and ```SUICIDE``` instruction in the ```update_analysis``` function. If these values are different for different flows, we report the bug in the ```detect_money_concurrency``` function.

### *vargenerator.py*

This is a utility class to provide unqiue symbolic variables required for analysis

### Tests
Testing opcodes in Oyente in order to check if opcodes are implemented correctly based on the final state of the storage and the memory. The tests are based on the [VM tests of Ethereum](http://ethdocs.org/en/latest/contracts-and-transactions/ethereum-tests/vm_tests/index.html).

The flow of testing:
- Load test data (using the existing EVM tests in [here](https://github.com/ethereum/tests/tree/develop/VMTests))
- Run oyente with the input was specified in the test data
- Compare the results (storage, memory and gas) after running oyente with the results being specified in the test data
- Report bugs

#### *test_evm.py*
This is the main entry point to the testing program. The program loads a specific test data file in folder ```test_evm/test_data/``` and start running `oyente.py `with the input being specified in the loaded test data to get an exit code which is returned from `oyente.py.` From this exit code the testing program can report the bug

#### *evm_unit_test.py*
A utility class to extract concerned sections and fields (`code`, `storage`, `out`, `gas` and `gas` in `exec` section) in the test data, run the tests, compare the results and return an exit code

#### *symExec.py*
```compare_storage_and_memory_unit_test(global_state, mem, analysis)``` starts comparing the results and return an exit code after the final opcode is implemented
